Upsun Express Guide v0.1 (#3437)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: sites/friday/src/get-started/express/add-database.md

---
title: "Add a database"
weight: -130
description: |
  Once Your Express application has been deployed on {{% vendor/name %}}, you might want to add a service to your application.
---

{{% description %}}

> {{% vendor/name %}} projects already include a [variety of services](/add-services.html#available-services) so you don’t have to subscribe to an external cache or search-engine services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% vendor/name %}} projects already include a [variety of services](/add-services.html#available-services), so you don’t have to subscribe to an external cache or search-engine services.
```

And as these services are included in your project, you can manage them through Git and they’re backed up along with the rest of your project.

> Your project source code defines the services configuration in the main `.{{% vendor/cli %}}/config.yaml` file and this is where you can add new services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your project source code defines the services configuration in the main `.{{% vendor/cli %}}/config.yaml` file, and this is where you can add new services.
```

As an example on how to do so, to add a [MariaDB database engine](/add-services/mysql.html) into your Express project, complete the following 4 steps:

## Create a new branch

> ## Add a MariaDB service
> Configure the MariaDB service by adding this Yaml definition at the end of your `.{{% vendor/cli %}}/config.yaml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add a MariaDB service

Configure the MariaDB service by adding this YAML definition at the end of your `.{{% vendor/cli %}}/config.yaml` file:
```

> ```yaml
> # .{{% vendor/cli %}}/config.yaml
> {{< code-link destination="/add-services.html#available-services" text="services" title="Click to see the complete list of all available services" >}}:
>   db:
>     type: mariadb:10.4
> ```

Reviewer: This adds the little location tab to the top of the snippet.
```suggestion
```yaml {configFile="app"}
{{< code-link destination="/add-services.html#available-services" text="services" title="Click to see the complete list of all available services" >}}:
  db:
    type: mariadb:10.4
```
```

> Connect the service to your application ``app`` by adding a relationships settings into your ``app`` definition, within your .{{% vendor/cli %}}/config.yaml file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connect the service to your application ``app`` by adding a relationships setting into your `app` definition:
```

> ```yaml
> # .{{% vendor/cli %}}/config.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml {configFile="app"}
```

applications:
  app:
    type: nodejs:18
    {{< code-link destination="/create-apps/app-reference.html#relationships" text="relationships" title="The relationships of the application with services or other applications. The left-hand side is the name of the relationship as it will be exposed to the application in the PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS variable. The right-hand side is in the form `<service name>:<endpoint name>`." >}}:
      database: "db:mysql"
```

Commit your change:
```shell
git add . && git commit -m "adding MariaDb database service"
{{% vendor/cli %}} push
```

{{< note >}}

> {{% vendor/name %}} will now read your configuration files, and begin building your application image. **Your push
> will fail**; don't worry, this is expected. At this point {{% vendor/cli %}} is not aware of the resources
> our new service needs. We need to tell it what kind of CPU, Memory, and disk to assign to the service container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% vendor/name %}} will now read your configuration files, and begin building your application image. **Your push
will fail**; don't worry, this is expected. At this point {{% vendor/cli %}} is not aware of the resources
our new service needs. You need to define how much CPU, memory, and disk to assign to the service container.
```

> Please complete [Configure resources for your service](#configure-resources-for-your-service) step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{{< /note >}}

> ## Configure resources for your service
> First time you push a new service to your project, it will fail, and you will need to allocate resources to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure resources for your service

When you push a new service to your project for the first time, the deployment will fail, and you will need to allocate resources to the service container.
```

 Back in your terminal, run:

```shell

> $ {{% vendor/cli %}} resource:set --size db:0.5 --disk db:512

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% vendor/cli %}} resource:set --size db:0.5 --disk db:512
```

Resource configuration for the project FHK Test Express 0926 (12345azerty), environment feat-database (type: development):
+------------------+------+-----+-------------+-----------+-----------+
| App or service   | Size | CPU | Memory (MB) | Disk (MB) | Instances |
+------------------+------+-----+-------------+-----------+-----------+
| app | 1    | 1   | 384         | N/A       | 1         |
| db               | 0.5  | 0.5 | 1408        | 512       | 1         |
```

## Configure your Express to use database

Configure your Express project to use it following the [official documentation](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/database-integration.html#mysql).

**TODO**: add a resource allocation process (or link) here

Then [deploy](#deploy) your modification and you’re good to go!

> ## Tip&Tricks
> You can get the service information using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tip&Tricks

You can get the service information using the following command:
```

```shell

> $ {{% vendor/cli %}} relationships

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% vendor/cli %}} relationships
```

As an example on how to do so, to add a [MariaDB database engine](/add-services/mysql.html) into your Express project, complete the following 4 steps:

Configure the MariaDB service by adding this Yaml definition at the end of your `.{{% vendor/cli %}}/config.yaml` file:

```yaml
# .{{% vendor/cli %}}/config.yaml
services:
  db:
    type: mariadb:10.4
```

Connect the service to your application by adding a relationships settings into your app definition, within your .{{% vendor/cli %}}/config.yaml file:
```yaml
# .{{% vendor/cli %}}/config.yaml
applications:
  app:
    type: nodejs:18
    # The relationships of the application with services or other applications.
    # The left-hand side is the name of the relationship as it will be exposed
    # to the application in the PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS variable. The right-hand
    # side is in the form `<service name>:<endpoint name>`.
    # More information: {{% vendor/url_doc %}}create-apps/app-reference.html#relationships
    relationships:
      database:
        service: "db"
        endpoint: "mysql"
```

> Configure your Express project to use it following the [official documentation](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/database-integration.html#mysql).

Reviewer 2: we should expand this to include how they can include this information via environmental variables instead of hard-coding the information from the output of `upsun relationships` 
Possibly reusing this piece from the current express template?

Author: i need to finish this part `Add a database` of the guide. 
At this time, only the first step of the guide is valid (no more TODO in it)
I will do it this afternoon!
